documentation/faq/data-collection-timelines.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# HMDA Data Collection Timelines

## HMDA Data Resubmission Window
The collection window of HMDA Data submission and resubmission is a three year period starting on January 1 and ending December 31.

<img src='/documentation/img/faq/data_collection_timeline.png' />

<br />
<br />

| Data Year | Collection Begins | Resubmission Ends |
| --------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| 2018      | January 1, 2019   | December 31, 2021 |
| 2019      | January 1, 2020   | December 31, 2022 |
| 2020      | January 1, 2021   | December 31, 2023 |
| 2021      | January 1, 2022   | December 31, 2024 |
| 2022      | January 1, 2023   | December 31, 2025 |
| 2023      | January 1, 2024   | December 31, 2026 |
| 2024      | January 1, 2025   | December 31, 2027 |
| 2025      | January 1, 2026   | December 31, 2028 |

## Filing Instructions Guide (FIG)

| HMDA Filing Instructions Guides (FIG) | 
|:---:|
| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2018-hmda-fig-2018-hmda-rule.pdf">2018</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2019-hmda-fig.pdf">2019</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2020-hmda-fig.pdf">2020</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2021/overview">2021</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2022/overview">2022</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2023/overview">2023</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2024/overview">2024</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2025/overview">2025</a>

**Note**: The 2018 FIG link in the table is the updated FIG released on October 11, 2018 for data collected in 2018 incorporating the 2018 HMDA rule. The <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2018-hmda-fig.pdf">previous 2018 FIG</a> released before the ruling is also available. Data collection for 2018 is closed.

The Filing Instructions Guide is available to filers in an online format that is searchable, linkable, and shareable. Access the [2024 Online FIG](/documentation/fig/2024/overview).

## Annual Filing Period Dates

The HMDA Platform is open for annual filing from January 1 – March 1. The Platform remains available outside of the filing period for late submissions and resubmissions.

If you need additional information to help get your file ready you can refer [Filing Instructions Guide (FIG)](#filing-instructions-guide-fig) section.

See below for information on HMDA Annual Filing period dates:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cfpb/hmda-frontend/master/src/documentation/markdown/images/annual_filing.png)

## Quarterly Filing Period Dates

Beginning January 1, 2020, the 2015 HMDA Final Rule requires quarterly reporting for financial institutions that reported a combined total of at least 60,000 applications and covered loans, excluding purchased covered loans, for the preceding calendar year. Thus, in addition to their annual data submission, these larger-volume reporters will submit HMDA data for each of the first three quarters of the year on a quarterly basis. Further information can be found in <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://www.consumerfinance.gov/rules-policy/regulations/1003/5/#a-1-ii">Regulation C, 12 CFR 1003.5(a)(1)(ii)</a>.

If you need additional information to help get your file ready you can refer to the <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2024/supplemental-guide-for-quarterly-filers">Supplemental Guide for Quarterly Filers</a> or the [Filing Instructions Guide (FIG)](#filing-instructions-guide-fig) section.

See below for information on HMDA 2024 Quarterly Filing period dates:

![Quarterly Filing calendar](/img/filing/quarterly_filing.png)

Quarterly HMDA data submissions are separated into three quarters.   

- Quarter 1 on time filing period: April 1 - May 30th (Loans with Final Action Taken Date: January 1 – March 31)
- Quarter 2 on time filing period: July 1 - August 29 (Loans with Final Action Taken Date: April 1 – June 30)
- Quarter 3 on time filing period: October 1 - November 29 (Loans with Final Action Taken Date: July 1 – September 30)

Commit message:

[Data Collection Timeline] Added an additional note under the annual image that outlines the March 1st filing deadline date.

documentation/faq/data-collection-timelines.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# HMDA Data Collection Timelines

## HMDA Data Resubmission Window
The collection window of HMDA Data submission and resubmission is a three year period starting on January 1 and ending December 31.

<img src='/documentation/img/faq/data_collection_timeline.png' />

<br />
<br />

| Data Year | Collection Begins | Resubmission Ends |
| --------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| 2018      | January 1, 2019   | December 31, 2021 |
| 2019      | January 1, 2020   | December 31, 2022 |
| 2020      | January 1, 2021   | December 31, 2023 |
| 2021      | January 1, 2022   | December 31, 2024 |
| 2022      | January 1, 2023   | December 31, 2025 |
| 2023      | January 1, 2024   | December 31, 2026 |
| 2024      | January 1, 2025   | December 31, 2027 |
| 2025      | January 1, 2026   | December 31, 2028 |

## Filing Instructions Guide (FIG)

| HMDA Filing Instructions Guides (FIG) | 
|:---:|
| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2018-hmda-fig-2018-hmda-rule.pdf">2018</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2019-hmda-fig.pdf">2019</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2020-hmda-fig.pdf">2020</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2021/overview">2021</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2022/overview">2022</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2023/overview">2023</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2024/overview">2024</a> \| <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2025/overview">2025</a>

**Note**: The 2018 FIG link in the table is the updated FIG released on October 11, 2018 for data collected in 2018 incorporating the 2018 HMDA rule. The <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://s3.amazonaws.com/cfpb-hmda-public/prod/help/2018-hmda-fig.pdf">previous 2018 FIG</a> released before the ruling is also available. Data collection for 2018 is closed.

The Filing Instructions Guide is available to filers in an online format that is searchable, linkable, and shareable. Access the [2024 Online FIG](/documentation/fig/2024/overview).

## Annual Filing Period Dates

The HMDA Platform is open for annual filing from January 1 – March 1. The Platform remains available outside of the filing period for late submissions and resubmissions.

If you need additional information to help get your file ready you can refer [Filing Instructions Guide (FIG)](#filing-instructions-guide-fig) section.

See below for information on HMDA Annual Filing period dates:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cfpb/hmda-frontend/master/src/documentation/markdown/images/annual_filing.png)

If March 1 falls on a Saturday or Sunday, what is the filing deadline for submission of HMDA data?

As stated in <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://www.consumerfinance.gov/policy-compliance/rulemaking/regulations/1003/5/#a-1">Section 1003.5(a)(1)(iii)</a> when the last day for submission falls on a Saturday or Sunday, a submission shall be considered timely if it is submitted on the next succeeding Monday. For example, submissions of 2019 HMDA data were considered timely if received on or before Monday, March 2, 2020.

## Quarterly Filing Period Dates

Beginning January 1, 2020, the 2015 HMDA Final Rule requires quarterly reporting for financial institutions that reported a combined total of at least 60,000 applications and covered loans, excluding purchased covered loans, for the preceding calendar year. Thus, in addition to their annual data submission, these larger-volume reporters will submit HMDA data for each of the first three quarters of the year on a quarterly basis. Further information can be found in <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://www.consumerfinance.gov/rules-policy/regulations/1003/5/#a-1-ii">Regulation C, 12 CFR 1003.5(a)(1)(ii)</a>.

If you need additional information to help get your file ready you can refer to the <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="/documentation/fig/2024/supplemental-guide-for-quarterly-filers">Supplemental Guide for Quarterly Filers</a> or the [Filing Instructions Guide (FIG)](#filing-instructions-guide-fig) section.

See below for information on HMDA 2024 Quarterly Filing period dates:

![Quarterly Filing calendar](/img/filing/quarterly_filing.png)

Quarterly HMDA data submissions are separated into three quarters.   

- Quarter 1 on time filing period: April 1 - May 30th (Loans with Final Action Taken Date: January 1 – March 31)
- Quarter 2 on time filing period: July 1 - August 29 (Loans with Final Action Taken Date: April 1 – June 30)
- Quarter 3 on time filing period: October 1 - November 29 (Loans with Final Action Taken Date: July 1 – September 30)
