documentation/api/filing/beta-platform.md, before:

# HMDA Beta Platform Filing API

The following documentation outlines the simulated submission of HMDA data using the Beta Filing API.

The [HMDA Beta Platform](https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/filing) is a test environment for pre-release builds of the [HMDA Platform](https://ffiec.cfpb.gov/filing). No data submitted to the HMDA Beta Platform will be considered as evidence of regulatory compliance.

## Authorization

To simulate filing of HMDA data using the Beta Filing API, a _bearer_ authorization token is required for all Beta Filing API calls. To acquire an authorization token use the `/auth` endpoint with your username and password as payload.

For local development, no authorization is needed. See [One-line Local Development Environment (No Auth)](https://github.com/cfpb/hmda-platform#one-line-local-development-environment-no-auth) for more info.

<p style={{ background: '#ffe4c4', paddingLeft: '10px', paddingTop: '10px', paddingBottom: '10px' }}>
<b><u>Please note:</u></b> The <b>HMDA Beta Platform</b> is for <b>test purposes only</b>. Any data submitted <b>WILL NOT</b> be considered as evidence of regulatory compliance. For official Submissions, please visit <a href='https://ffiec.cfpb.gov/filing'>https://ffiec.cfpb.gov/filing</a>.

</p>

<b>Request</b>

  ```text
  curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/auth/realms/hmda2/protocol/openid-connect/token" \
  -d 'client_id=hmda2-api&grant_type=password&username={{username}}%40{{bank_domain}}&password={{password}}'
  ```

 | |
---|---
Method  |  `POST`
URL | `https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/auth/realms/hmda2/protocol/openid-connect/token`
Payload  | client_id=hmda2-api <br/> grant_type=password <br/> username={{username}}%40{{bank_domain}} <br/> password={{password}}

## Postman Collection

The [HMDA Postman Collection](https://github.com/cfpb/hmda-platform/tree/master/newman/postman) has been prepared to simplify the process of using the HMDA Platform Filing APIs.

[Postman](https://www.postman.com/product/api-client/) is a client side application that allows users to easily construct Beta HMDA Platform API calls and import external Beta Platform API collections.

## Filing Process

Submission of HMDA data follows these steps which are mirrored in the Submission status codes:

<p style={{ background: '#ffe4c4', paddingLeft: '10px', paddingTop: '10px', paddingBottom: '10px' }}>
<b><u>Please note:</u></b> The <b>HMDA Beta Platform</b> is for <b>test purposes only</b>. Signing of Submissions on the Beta Platform is <b>disabled</b>, as any data submitted <b>WILL NOT</b> be considered as evidence of regulatory compliance. 
</p>

1. Create a Filing: There is one Filing per institution, per filing season. This Filing is created by the HMDA Operations team in preperation for each filing season.
1. Create a Submission: Submissions are created within a Filing with each representing a single file upload. Many Submissions can be created for a Filing. Each new Submission is assigned a sequentially incremented ID.
1. Upload a File: A file is then uploaded to the Submission that was created. Only one file can be uploaded per Submission. To upload a new file you must create a new Submission.
1. Check the status of the Submission: If a Submission triggers Syntactical or Validity Edits, a corrected file must be uploaded.
1. Validate Quality Edits: Review any Quality Edits that have been triggered and confirm that the submitted data are correct.
1. Validate Macro Edits: Review any Macro Edits that have been triggered and confirm that the submitted data are correct.
1. Simulation Complete: Signing is disabled for Beta Platform Submissions.

### Object Hierarchy

![filing heirarchy](/img/filingObjectHierarchy.png)

### Submission Status

The Submission status is the best way to check the state of a Filing. It will be useful to query the Submission status often throughout the process of file upload and Edit validation.

#### Submission Status Codes

<b>JSON Response:</b>

```json
{
  "id": {
    "lei": "12345abc",
    "period": "2020",
    "sequenceNumber": 3
  },
  "status": {
    "code": 1,
    "message": "No data has been uploaded yet.",
    "description": "The filing period is open and available to accept HMDA data. Make sure your data is in a pipe-delimited text file."
  },
  "start": 0,
  "end": 0,
  "fileName": "test.txt",
  "receipt": ""
}
```

In order to track the status of a Filing for a financial institution, the following states are captured by the HMDA Platform:

Code | Message | Description
--- | --- | ---
1 | No data has been uploaded yet. | The filing period is open and available to accept HMDA data. Make sure your data is in a pipe-delimited text file.
2 | Your file is uploading. | Your file is currently being uploaded to the HMDA Platform.
3 | Your file has been uploaded. | Your data is ready to be analyzed.
4 | Checking the formatting of your data. | Your file is being analyzed to ensure that it meets formatting requirements specified in the HMDA Filing Instructions Guide.
5 | Your data has formatting errors. | Review these errors and update your file. Then, upload the corrected file.
6 | Your data is formatted correctly. | Your file meets the formatting requirements specified in the HMDA Filing Instructions Guide. Your data will now be analyzed for any edits.
7 | Your data is being analyzed. | Your data has been uploaded and is being checked for any edits.
8 | Your data has been analyzed for Syntactical and Validity Errors. | Your file has been analyzed and does not contain any Syntactical or Validity errors.
9 | Your data has syntactical and/or validity edits that need to be reviewed. | Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until the file is corrected and re-uploaded.
10 | Your data has been analyzed for Quality Errors. | Your file has been analyzed, and does not contain quality errors.
11 | Your data has quality edits that need to be reviewed. | Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded.
12 | Your data has been analyzed for macro errors. | Your file has been analyzed, and does not contain macro errors.
13 | Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed. | Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded.
14 | Your data is ready for submission. | Your financial institution has certified that the data is correct, but it has not been submitted yet.
-1 | An error occurred while submitting the data. | Please re-upload your file.

## Endpoints

### Start a Filing

For every filing period, you must begin by starting a Filing. This only needs to be done once per filing season. On the official HMDA Platform this Filing will have already been created by the HMDA Operations team. 
The `POST` will result in a `200` only for the first time it's called. If the Filing for the given filing period already exists, the `POST` will return a `400`.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer  {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "filing": {
        "period": "2020",
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "status": {
            "code": 2,
            "message": "in-progress"
        },
        "filingRequired": true,
        "start": 1572378187454,
        "end": 0
    },
    "submissions": []
}
```

### Get a Filing

This endpoint can be used to confirm that a Filing exists for the relevant period.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer  {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "filing": {
        "period": "2020",
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "status": {
            "code": 2,
            "message": "in-progress"
        },
        "filingRequired": true,
        "start": 1572378187454,
        "end": 0
    },
    "submissions": []
}
```

### Create a Submission

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
```

A Submission must be created for each file upload. More than one Submission can be created for a filing period. The most recent Submission will be considered the Latest Submission. Each `POST` on the Submission endpoint will return a new Submission `sequenceNumber`.

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions
Headers: {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": "2020",
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 1,
        "message": "No data has been uploaded yet.",
        "description": "The filing period is open and available to accept HMDA data. Make sure your data is in a pipe-delimited text file."
    },
    "start": 1572358820303,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "",
    "receipt": ""
}
```

### Get the Latest Submission

Returns details about the last created Submission including its sequence number and status.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/latest" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/latest
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": "2020",
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded."
    },
    "start": 1572372016130,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "clean_file_10.txt",
    "receipt": "",
    "qualityVerified": false,
    "macroVerified": false,
    "qualityExists": true,
    "macroExists": true
}
```

### Upload a File

Upload a file to a Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
  -H 'content-type: multipart/form-data; boundary=----WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW' \
  -F file=<file.csv>
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}, 'Content-Type': multipart/form-data
Payload: LAR file
```

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": "2020",
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status":{
        "code": 3,
        "message": "Your file has been uploaded.",
        "description": "Your data is ready to be analyzed."
    },
    "start": 1572372016130,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "",
    "receipt": ""
}
```

### View Parsing Errors

Returns a list of all parsing errors triggered by the file uploaded to a Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/parseErrors" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}'
```

<b>Response</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/parseErrors
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "transmittalSheetErrors": [],
    "larErrors": [],
    "count": 0,
    "total": 0,
    "status": {
        "code": 5,
        "message": "Your data has formatting errors.",
        "description": "Review these errors and update your file. Then, upload the corrected file."
    },
    "_links": {
        "href": "/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/24/parseErrors{rel}",
        "self": "?page=1",
        "first": "?page=1",
        "prev": "?page=1",
        "next": "?page=0",
        "last": "?page=0"
    }
}
```

### View All Edits

Returns a summary of all Edits triggered by an upload in a Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "syntactical": {
        "edits": []
    },
    "validity": {
        "edits": []
    },
    "quality": {
        "edits": [
            {
                "edit": "Q630",
                "description": "If Total Units is greater than or equal to 5, then HOEPA Status generally should equal 3."
            },
            {
                "edit": "Q631",
                "description": "If Loan Type equals 2, 3 or 4, then Total Units generally should be less than or equal to 4."
            }
        ],
        "verified": false
    },
    "macro": {
        "edits": [
            {
                "edit": "Q637",
                "description": "No more than 15% of the loans in the file should report Action Taken equals 5. Your data indicates a percentage outside of this range."
            }
        ],
        "verified": false
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded.",
        "qualityVerified": false,
        "macroVerified": false
    }
}
```

### View Edit Details

Returns detailed information about a specific Edit, including a list of lines that triggered the Edit and the relevant fields from those lines.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/Q631" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoin: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/{{edit_code}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "edit": "Q631",
    "rows": [
        {
           "id": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LDHHXWCDPM0ZEHW08FFTXGRXT62",
           "fields": [
               {
                   "name": "Loan Type",
                   "value": "3"
               },
               {
                   "name": "Total Units",
                   "value": "16"
               }
           ]
       }
   ],
   "count": 20,
   "total": 54,
   "_links": {
       "href": "/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/Q631{rel}",
       "self": "?page=1",
       "first": "?page=1",
       "prev": "?page=1",
       "next": "?page=2",
       "last": "?page=3"
   }
}
```

### Verify Quality Edits

Verify that the uploaded data is correct and that the reported Quality Edits are not relevent to the Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/quality" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
  -d '{"verified": true}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/quality
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
Body: {"verified": true}
```

```json
{
    "verified": true,
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded."
    }
}
```

### Verify Macro Edits

Verify that the uploaded data is correct and that the reported Macro Edits are not relevent to the Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/macro" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
  -d '{"verified": true}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint | https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/macro
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
Body: {"verified": true}
```

```json
{
    "verified": true,
    "status": {
        "code": 14,
        "message": "Your data is ready for submission.",
        "description": "Your financial institution has certified that the data is correct, but it has not been submitted yet."
    }
}
```

## Quarterly Filing

All the endpoints are the same for quarterly filing with the addtion of `quarter/Q1/`, `quarter/Q2/` or `quarter/Q3/` after the filing parameter and before the submission parameter.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/quarter/Q1/submissions/latest" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": {
            "year": "2020"
            "quarter": "Q1"
        },
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded."
    },
    "start": 1585750668652,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "<file_name>",
    "receipt": "",
    "qualityVerified": false,
    "macroVerified": false,
    "qualityExists": true,
    "macroExists": false
}
```

Commit message:

[BETA FILING] Updated beta filing doc requrest, added two new sections - Error Messages & Password Policy

documentation/api/filing/beta-platform.md, after:

# HMDA Beta Platform Filing API

The following documentation outlines the simulated submission of HMDA data using the Beta Filing API.

The [HMDA Beta Platform](https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/filing) is a test environment for pre-release builds of the [HMDA Platform](https://ffiec.cfpb.gov/filing). No data submitted to the HMDA Beta Platform will be considered as evidence of regulatory compliance.

## Authorization

To simulate filing of HMDA data using the Beta Filing API, a _bearer_ authorization token is required for all Beta Filing API calls. To acquire an authorization token use the `/auth` endpoint with your username and password as payload.

For local development, no authorization is needed. See [One-line Local Development Environment (No Auth)](https://github.com/cfpb/hmda-platform#one-line-local-development-environment-no-auth) for more info.

<p style={{ background: '#ffe4c4', paddingLeft: '10px', paddingTop: '10px', paddingBottom: '10px' }}>
<b><u>Please note:</u></b> The <b>HMDA Beta Platform</b> is for <b>test purposes only</b>. Any data submitted <b>WILL NOT</b> be considered as evidence of regulatory compliance. For official Submissions, please visit <a href='https://ffiec.cfpb.gov/filing'>https://ffiec.cfpb.gov/filing</a>.

</p>

<b>Request</b>

```
TOKEN=$(curl -s 'https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/auth/realms/hmda2/protocol/openid-connect/token'
--header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded'
--data-urlencode 'client_id=hmda2-api'
--data-urlencode 'grant_type=password'
--data-urlencode 'username=xxxx'
--data-urlencode 'password=xxx' | jq .""access_token"" | tr -d '"') && echo $TOKEN
```

 | |
---|---
Method  |  `POST`
URL | `https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/auth/realms/hmda2/protocol/openid-connect/token`
Payload  | client_id=hmda2-api <br/> grant_type=password <br/> username={{username}}%40{{bank_domain}} <br/> password={{password}}

### Error Messages

error | error_description | explanation
---|---|---
invalid_grant | Account is not fully set up | Either the `password` needs to be reset or the `email` needs to be verified..
invalid_grant | Account disabled | Please contact HMDA Help (hmdahelp@cfpb.gov) in order to re-enable the account.
invalid_grant | Invalid user credentials | The `username` or `password` provided is incorrect.

### Password Policy

- Users must reset their password every 90 days. This 90 days is from when the account's password was last set.
- Passwords must:
  - Be at least 12 characters
  - Have at least 1 uppercase character
  - Have at least 1 lowercase character
  - Have at least 1 numerical character
  - Have at least 1 special character
  - Not be the same as your username 

## Postman Collection

The [HMDA Postman Collection](https://github.com/cfpb/hmda-platform/tree/master/newman/postman) has been prepared to simplify the process of using the HMDA Platform Filing APIs.

[Postman](https://www.postman.com/product/api-client/) is a client side application that allows users to easily construct Beta HMDA Platform API calls and import external Beta Platform API collections.

## Filing Process

Submission of HMDA data follows these steps which are mirrored in the Submission status codes:

<p style={{ background: '#ffe4c4', paddingLeft: '10px', paddingTop: '10px', paddingBottom: '10px' }}>
<b><u>Please note:</u></b> The <b>HMDA Beta Platform</b> is for <b>test purposes only</b>. Signing of Submissions on the Beta Platform is <b>disabled</b>, as any data submitted <b>WILL NOT</b> be considered as evidence of regulatory compliance. 
</p>

1. Create a Filing: There is one Filing per institution, per filing season. This Filing is created by the HMDA Operations team in preperation for each filing season.
1. Create a Submission: Submissions are created within a Filing with each representing a single file upload. Many Submissions can be created for a Filing. Each new Submission is assigned a sequentially incremented ID.
1. Upload a File: A file is then uploaded to the Submission that was created. Only one file can be uploaded per Submission. To upload a new file you must create a new Submission.
1. Check the status of the Submission: If a Submission triggers Syntactical or Validity Edits, a corrected file must be uploaded.
1. Validate Quality Edits: Review any Quality Edits that have been triggered and confirm that the submitted data are correct.
1. Validate Macro Edits: Review any Macro Edits that have been triggered and confirm that the submitted data are correct.
1. Simulation Complete: Signing is disabled for Beta Platform Submissions.

### Object Hierarchy

![filing heirarchy](/img/filingObjectHierarchy.png)

### Submission Status

The Submission status is the best way to check the state of a Filing. It will be useful to query the Submission status often throughout the process of file upload and Edit validation.

#### Submission Status Codes

<b>JSON Response:</b>

```json
{
  "id": {
    "lei": "12345abc",
    "period": "2020",
    "sequenceNumber": 3
  },
  "status": {
    "code": 1,
    "message": "No data has been uploaded yet.",
    "description": "The filing period is open and available to accept HMDA data. Make sure your data is in a pipe-delimited text file."
  },
  "start": 0,
  "end": 0,
  "fileName": "test.txt",
  "receipt": ""
}
```

In order to track the status of a Filing for a financial institution, the following states are captured by the HMDA Platform:

Code | Message | Description
--- | --- | ---
1 | No data has been uploaded yet. | The filing period is open and available to accept HMDA data. Make sure your data is in a pipe-delimited text file.
2 | Your file is uploading. | Your file is currently being uploaded to the HMDA Platform.
3 | Your file has been uploaded. | Your data is ready to be analyzed.
4 | Checking the formatting of your data. | Your file is being analyzed to ensure that it meets formatting requirements specified in the HMDA Filing Instructions Guide.
5 | Your data has formatting errors. | Review these errors and update your file. Then, upload the corrected file.
6 | Your data is formatted correctly. | Your file meets the formatting requirements specified in the HMDA Filing Instructions Guide. Your data will now be analyzed for any edits.
7 | Your data is being analyzed. | Your data has been uploaded and is being checked for any edits.
8 | Your data has been analyzed for Syntactical and Validity Errors. | Your file has been analyzed and does not contain any Syntactical or Validity errors.
9 | Your data has syntactical and/or validity edits that need to be reviewed. | Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until the file is corrected and re-uploaded.
10 | Your data has been analyzed for Quality Errors. | Your file has been analyzed, and does not contain quality errors.
11 | Your data has quality edits that need to be reviewed. | Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded.
12 | Your data has been analyzed for macro errors. | Your file has been analyzed, and does not contain macro errors.
13 | Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed. | Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded.
14 | Your data is ready for submission. | Your financial institution has certified that the data is correct, but it has not been submitted yet.
-1 | An error occurred while submitting the data. | Please re-upload your file.

## Endpoints

### Start a Filing

For every filing period, you must begin by starting a Filing. This only needs to be done once per filing season. On the official HMDA Platform this Filing will have already been created by the HMDA Operations team. 
The `POST` will result in a `200` only for the first time it's called. If the Filing for the given filing period already exists, the `POST` will return a `400`.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer  {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "filing": {
        "period": "2020",
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "status": {
            "code": 2,
            "message": "in-progress"
        },
        "filingRequired": true,
        "start": 1572378187454,
        "end": 0
    },
    "submissions": []
}
```

### Get a Filing

This endpoint can be used to confirm that a Filing exists for the relevant period.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer  {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "filing": {
        "period": "2020",
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "status": {
            "code": 2,
            "message": "in-progress"
        },
        "filingRequired": true,
        "start": 1572378187454,
        "end": 0
    },
    "submissions": []
}
```

### Create a Submission

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
```

A Submission must be created for each file upload. More than one Submission can be created for a filing period. The most recent Submission will be considered the Latest Submission. Each `POST` on the Submission endpoint will return a new Submission `sequenceNumber`.

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions
Headers: {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": "2020",
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 1,
        "message": "No data has been uploaded yet.",
        "description": "The filing period is open and available to accept HMDA data. Make sure your data is in a pipe-delimited text file."
    },
    "start": 1572358820303,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "",
    "receipt": ""
}
```

### Get the Latest Submission

Returns details about the last created Submission including its sequence number and status.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/latest" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/latest
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": "2020",
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded."
    },
    "start": 1572372016130,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "clean_file_10.txt",
    "receipt": "",
    "qualityVerified": false,
    "macroVerified": false,
    "qualityExists": true,
    "macroExists": true
}
```

### Upload a File

Upload a file to a Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
  -H 'content-type: multipart/form-data; boundary=----WebKitFormBoundary7MA4YWxkTrZu0gW' \
  -F file=<file.csv>
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}, 'Content-Type': multipart/form-data
Payload: LAR file
```

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": "2020",
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status":{
        "code": 3,
        "message": "Your file has been uploaded.",
        "description": "Your data is ready to be analyzed."
    },
    "start": 1572372016130,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "",
    "receipt": ""
}
```

### View Parsing Errors

Returns a list of all parsing errors triggered by the file uploaded to a Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/parseErrors" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}'
```

<b>Response</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/parseErrors
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "transmittalSheetErrors": [],
    "larErrors": [],
    "count": 0,
    "total": 0,
    "status": {
        "code": 5,
        "message": "Your data has formatting errors.",
        "description": "Review these errors and update your file. Then, upload the corrected file."
    },
    "_links": {
        "href": "/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/24/parseErrors{rel}",
        "self": "?page=1",
        "first": "?page=1",
        "prev": "?page=1",
        "next": "?page=0",
        "last": "?page=0"
    }
}
```

### View All Edits

Returns a summary of all Edits triggered by an upload in a Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "syntactical": {
        "edits": []
    },
    "validity": {
        "edits": []
    },
    "quality": {
        "edits": [
            {
                "edit": "Q630",
                "description": "If Total Units is greater than or equal to 5, then HOEPA Status generally should equal 3."
            },
            {
                "edit": "Q631",
                "description": "If Loan Type equals 2, 3 or 4, then Total Units generally should be less than or equal to 4."
            }
        ],
        "verified": false
    },
    "macro": {
        "edits": [
            {
                "edit": "Q637",
                "description": "No more than 15% of the loans in the file should report Action Taken equals 5. Your data indicates a percentage outside of this range."
            }
        ],
        "verified": false
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded.",
        "qualityVerified": false,
        "macroVerified": false
    }
}
```

### View Edit Details

Returns detailed information about a specific Edit, including a list of lines that triggered the Edit and the relevant fields from those lines.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/Q631" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: GET
Endpoin: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/{{edit_code}}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
```

```json
{
    "edit": "Q631",
    "rows": [
        {
           "id": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LDHHXWCDPM0ZEHW08FFTXGRXT62",
           "fields": [
               {
                   "name": "Loan Type",
                   "value": "3"
               },
               {
                   "name": "Total Units",
                   "value": "16"
               }
           ]
       }
   ],
   "count": 20,
   "total": 54,
   "_links": {
       "href": "/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/Q631{rel}",
       "self": "?page=1",
       "first": "?page=1",
       "prev": "?page=1",
       "next": "?page=2",
       "last": "?page=3"
   }
}
```

### Verify Quality Edits

Verify that the uploaded data is correct and that the reported Quality Edits are not relevent to the Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/quality" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
  -d '{"verified": true}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint: https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/quality
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
Body: {"verified": true}
```

```json
{
    "verified": true,
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded."
    }
}
```

### Verify Macro Edits

Verify that the uploaded data is correct and that the reported Macro Edits are not relevent to the Submission.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X POST \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/macro" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
  -d '{"verified": true}'
```

<b>Response:</b>

```
Method: POST
Endpoint | https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/{{year}}/submissions/{{sequenceNumber}}/edits/macro
Headers: Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}
Body: {"verified": true}
```

```json
{
    "verified": true,
    "status": {
        "code": 14,
        "message": "Your data is ready for submission.",
        "description": "Your financial institution has certified that the data is correct, but it has not been submitted yet."
    }
}
```

## Quarterly Filing

All the endpoints are the same for quarterly filing with the addtion of `quarter/Q1/`, `quarter/Q2/` or `quarter/Q3/` after the filing parameter and before the submission parameter.

<b>Request:</b>

```
curl -X GET \
  "https://ffiec.beta.cfpb.gov/v2/filing/institutions/B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD/filings/{{year}}/quarter/Q1/submissions/latest" \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer {{access_token}}' \
```

<b>Response:</b>

```json
{
    "id": {
        "lei": "B90YWS6AFX2LGWOXJ1LD",
        "period": {
            "year": "2020"
            "quarter": "Q1"
        },
        "sequenceNumber": 10
    },
    "status": {
        "code": 13,
        "message": "Your data has macro edits that need to be reviewed.",
        "description": "Your file has been uploaded, but the filing process may not proceed until edits are verified or the file is corrected and re-uploaded."
    },
    "start": 1585750668652,
    "end": 0,
    "fileName": "<file_name>",
    "receipt": "",
    "qualityVerified": false,
    "macroVerified": false,
    "qualityExists": true,
    "macroExists": false
}
```
